---
layout: post 
title:  "2021-06 TIL Notes"
tags: [memory]
featured_image: 
---

## 2021-06-17

#### [Command Line Secrets](https://smallstep.com/blog/command-line-secrets/)

Nice ideas about passing 'secrets' as arguments - viewable via ps as they are in plain text on the command line. Proposed alternative is to pass them as references to on-disk files. 

Also has some nice point about doing things like ```<(echo -n "$STEP_CA_PASSWORD")``` where the command line gets a file descriptor rather than the secret. 

The author is using a command line JSON processor (jq) which looks to do a really nice job of this - and has the flexibility to take args or paths-to-secret-files. 


#### [Catullus 16](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catullus_16)

Stunningly rude Latin poetry that I found from a Tweet wherein a Classics teacher was given a framed copy of the whole thing. 

It is ... rude. The back story seems to be the poet hitting back against critics who claimed that his soft style in poetry made him less of a man.


#### [Text Editing Hates You Too](https://lord.io/text-editing-hates-you-too/)

This is a really nice article about some of the non-intuitive reasons why text editing is non-trivial. 'Simple' things like how a cursor should move, how selection and deletion should work - quickly become *fiendishly* complicated as you start to introduce Unicode, right-to-left scripts, emoji with modifiers, etc.


#### [Why the sad face?](https://lukasz.langa.pl/1d1a43c4-9c8a-4c5f-a366-7f22ce6a49fc/)
Lovely article by Lukasz Langa (author of the Black library) about why Black formats closing brackets in function definitions / logic statements in certain way. I'm notriously fussy about technical writing and consider this to be the *gold standard* in terms of clarity. Double win by Lukasz: made a great thing, now supporting it with excellent communication and docs. 